I installed Ruby on Rails alongside WampServer. Here is how to do it:

Replace C:\wamp\ in the following text by your own WampServer's install repository.

Installing Ruby:

Download Ruby. Use the Windows binary version, not the "one click installer" because it contains MySQL and Apache which we don't need.
Extract the zip to C:\wamp\ruby\.
Add Ruby's bin repository in your PATH environment variable:

Right click "Computer / Properties".
Click "Advanced System Settings".
Advanced tab / Environment Variables.
Append ;C:\wamp\ruby\bin to the Path variable.
Installing DevKit:

Download DevKit:

Extract DevKit to c:\wamp\ruby\DevKit.
cd /d c:\wamp\ruby\DevKit.
ruby dk.rb init.

Add - c:\wamp\ruby to the end of config.yml.
ruby dk.rb install

Installing Rails and the Mongrel server:

Open the command line and type:

gem install rails
Create your first Rails application by opening the command line from C:\wamp\www\rails\ and typing:

rails hello
Install the Mongrel server and Windows Mongrel service, making sure to run the command line as administrator:

gem install mongrel and
gem install mongrel_service
Install a Windows service for your Rails application:

mongrel_rails service::install -N ruby-hello -c c:\wamp\www\rails\hello -p 3001 -e development
Start your Mongrel service:

net start ruby-hello
You can now access your Rails application at http://localhost:3001/.

Integrating with Apache

Enable mod_proxy in httpd.conf

Open httpd.conf (c:\wamp\bin\apache\Apache2.x.x\conf\httpd.conf) and uncomment the following line:

LoadModule proxy_module modules/mod_proxy.so
Forward your traffic to your Mongrel server. Add the following text to your httpd.conf (or extra/httpd-vhosts.conf if it's included in your httpd.conf):

<VirtualHost *:80>
ServerName hello.com
ServerAlias *.hello.com
ProxyPass / http://localhost:3001/
ProxyPassReverse / http://localhost:3001
</VirtualHost>
Add hello.com to your hosts file. Open c:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\hosts in Notepad and add the following line:

127.0.0.1 www.hello.com hello.com
You can now go to http://www.hello.com and it should load your Rails application.

References:

http://rubyinstaller.org/downloads
http://www.wampserver.com
http://www.ruby-lang.org
http://mongrel.rubyforge.org and http://mongrel.rubyforge.org/wiki/Win32